My initial hypothesis was that there would be a correlation between warmer temperatures and more children leaving school early. This will be especially true in the high schools, where children have more indepence and are therefore more able to leave early than younger elementary-age students. Part of New York City's open data project has information about Daily Attendance for schools, by the school DBN (district, borough, number). You can't see who was in school, but you can see the number of students enrolled and the number of students who were absent, present, and released early. These are the links: https://data.cityofnewyork.us/Education/2015-2018-Historical-Daily-Attendance-By-School/3y5p-x48f for 2015-2018 school years and for the 2018-2019 school year: https://data.cityofnewyork.us/Education/2018-2019-Daily-Attendance/x3bb-kg5j.

With just the DBN, it is extremely difficult to figure out whether the school is an elementary school, high school, or middle school. This information is important in order to determine whether more kids leave who are younger or older. However, there is a data set which, along with a lot of other information about student demographics, also says how many kids are enrolled in each school by grade for the 2013-2018 school years. this is the link: https://data.cityofnewyork.us/Education/2013-2018-Demographic-Snapshot-School/s52a-8aq6. Additionally, in order to determine the temperature, I used the manhattanWeatherClean.gz in the HistoricalManhattanWeather directoy in the /data/raw directory in the ADA server.
For my initial files: 1. for the temperature by day, I took that information, took out the weather information for the days between 2015 and 2019, and I chose to focus on the temperature at 12:00 pm each day.
2: for the attendance: Then in another file, I combined the attendance files from 2015-2018 and 2018-2019 school years, and I made sure to match the formatting of the dates in all the files so that it will be consistent. this printed out the date, the number of children enrolled, the number of children realeased
3: for the school type: In a different file, I used the demographics information of students by grade to determine which schools were Elementary (K-5), Middle(6-8) and High schools(9-12), the delineation of the grades is based on https://www.schools.nyc.gov/learning/student-journey/grade-by-grade, the new york city public schools website delineation of grades. the type is tagged as "L" for elementary, "M" for middle school, "H" for high school, and any combination of these letters as there are grades enrolled in the school (meaning if there are kids in middle and high school, then the tag would be "LM" to show it's a middle and high school)

Then I took the information in files 2 and 3, and made a file that instead of the naming the schools by just the DBN, it adds the type at the end of the DBN. so it prints out the same way as file 2, except that the school is represented as DBN+type

Next I made another file that took the combination of files 2 and 3, and takes file 1, and replaces the date information with the temperature and adds a fields that prints out the percent of kids released early / kids enrolled and multiply that by 100. This ensures that the only temperatures used are the temperatures of school days. 

Then I used this information to make a last file that puts the (temperature, percent) as the keys, school type as the value of a key,value pair in an RDD. Then this file makes a bunch of rdds filtered by the different tags, and each tag got assigned a different color.
Then I put all of this information into a scatter plot. The x axis is the temperature and the y axis is the percent of kids released / kids enrolled.
then this scatterplot is saved into a pdf.

Initially the results from my graph were that when the temperature is between about 35 and 50 degrees, there seems to be a very large percentage of students who leave school, especially in the high schools. This  is also the case when the temperature is between about 65 and 85 degrees, however it is even more noticeable in that range of temperatures. This is somewhat unexpected regarding the fact that this happens both when the temperature is cold and when it's warm. However, it is very expected regarding the fact that the older kids were the ones who are released early in higher percentages, so that would seem to hold by the original theory that a greater independence of high school kids allows them to leave earlier. Additionally, the fact that this phenomena is more noticeable when the temperatures are between 65 and 85 was also expected. This phenomena was both more noticeable in the 40-50% range, for instance, and also in the range of nearly all of the students not being there. Meaning, there seem to be a greater cluster of dots in the 65 to 85 range than the 30 to 40 range

After more investigation, I realized that on official half-days, the students are still listed as having left early.  Having realized that, I took out all days where regents happen (both in january and june), any other days that are officially listed as half days on the school calendar (of which many were in march and november), and I also looked to find days where the weather was particularly bad and they might have been released early officially, but still listed as released. Additionally, in order to make the graph more comprehensible, I took the average of the percentage students in each type of school that were  released per temperature point. 
With this final graph, I found that my hypothesis about the correlation in rise of temperature and children's absences  doesn't seem to be supported overall. However, in general more older children were released early than younger children. Looking at the colder temperatures though, there seem to be some points where younger children were released early, and warmer temperatures were older children were released early. This could be due to there being days when children were officially released early that aren't accounted for still. However, this could be a point worth investigating. 
